% Pragmatux Release Notes for Intrinsyc&trade; DragonBoard APQ8060A

Copyright (c) 2013 Pragmatux Foundation, Inc.  All Rights Reserved

_Pragmatux_ is a trademark of Pragmatux Foundation, Inc., registered
in the United States of America and other countries.  _Intrinsyc_ is a
trademark of Intrinsyc Software International, Inc., registered in
Canada and other countries.  _Qualcomm_, _Snapdragon_, and
_DragonBoard_ are registered tradmarks of Qualcomm Incorporated,
registered in the United States of America and other countries.  Other
product and brand names used herein may be trademarks or registered
trademarks of their respective owners.

Mention of any particular product or brand name herein is for
instructional purposes only, and does not constitute endorsement by
Pragmatux Foundation, Inc.

This document contains technical data that may be subject to United
States and international export, re-export, or transfer ("export")
laws.  Diversion contrary to United States and international law is
strictly prohibited.

# Identification #

- Version: 20130605
- Release Date: June 5, 2013

# History #

- 20130116: Initial release.
- 20130312: Add preliminary GUI.
- 20130315: Fix touchscreen, add web browser.
- 20130524: Fix root partition
- 20130605: Kernel updates, see [changelog](https://raw.github.com/pragmatux/linux-db8060a/1e58e093669a6fc09812e865323f28f47d00ac07/debian/changelog)

# Files #

File                                                                    MD5 fingerprint
----------------------------------------------------------------        --------------------------------
[boot-db8060a-20130605.img](/prebuilt/boot-db8060a-20130605.img)        c53c6c210d779ae6cccb85d76e914656
[ptux-db8060a-20130605.img.gz](/prebuilt/ptux-db8060a-20130605.img.gz)  de6c2907270f1692bb3f9052d0b60652

# Overview #

The above files contain a base Pragmatux operating system for the
Intrinsyc DragonBoard APQ8060A SOM, and may be installed according to
the abbreviated procedure described below.  For more detailed
instructions and the procedure used to construct these files, consult
the Pragmatux Quick Start Guide for the target device located here:
<http://pragmatux.org/docs/quick-start-db8060a.html>.  Please note the
filesystem image must be uncompressed before writing via fastboot.

This document also provides a list of the high-level capabilities and
features supported by this release, as well as any known issues.  Note
that all testing is performed with the SOM attached to the compatible
expansion board provided by Intrinsyc.

Pragmatux is an embedded Linux operating system that also supports
Android and other application frameworks.  Please contact the supplier
of your device to obtain Pragmatux image files containing Android for
the Intrinsyc DragonBoard APQ8060A.

# Additional Documents #

## Applicable Documents ##

None.

## Reference Documents ##

- Technical Note: Obtaining a list of package versions from a Pragmatux ptux.img file.
- Technical Note: Obtaining the source code for Pragmatux packages.


# Functional Description #

This software release utilizes Qualcomm's Linux kernel for the
APQ8060A, as provided by Code Aurora Forum.  As with all Pragmatux
releases, the remaining components are Pragmatux project resources, or
derivatives from the Embedded Debian, Debian, and other projects.

A base Pragmatux release provides a basic, out-of-box embedded Linux
functionality that the end user then enhances and customizes by
downloading software packages from the Pragmatux project and other
repositories directly to their target device.

As described in the Pragmatux User's Manual, a developer may easily
produce their own images that are pre-customized to their needs, as
well as configure a developer workstation with compatible development
tools, libraries, and header files.

# Functional Features by Subsystem #

## Serial console ##

Supported.  Provides kernel message log and login console.

## Ethernet ##

Supported.  Address configuration via DHCP.  Detects cable
(re)insertion after power-up, and initates a DHCP request thereafter.

## Graphic Display and Touch Interface ##

Unaccelerated framebuffer supported, configured per the expansion
board display.  The /dev/fb device node is provided.

Display accelerator libraries are available from Intrinsyc under
license.  Contact them for information.

Touch interface is supported via /dev/input node.

The system boots to the Enlightenment desktop manager as an demonstration of
the display and touchscreen hardware.

## USB ##

Device connector on the SOM is supported, but not assigned a functionality.

Device connector on the expansion board is configured for usb-storage,
backed by one of the SOM's eMMC partitions.

## Sensors ##

Accelerometer, compass, and proximity sensors supported via /dev/input interfaces.

## Boot ##

SOM is shipped by Intrinsyc with _fastboot_ support for low-level
programming; Pragmatux leaves this unchanged.

SOM boots to the onboard eMMC device; Pragmatux leaves this unchanged.

This board is compatible with the Pragmatux "unbrickable" customizable
Linux bootloader.  See the Pragmatux website for installation
instructions.

# Known Issues by Subsystem #

In the following, "not tested" means that the status is unchanged from
previous releases; the functionality of the subsystem has been neither
confirmed nor denied.  In some cases, Technical Notes containing
additional information are produced after this Release Note; see the
Pragmatux website for more information.

## 802.11 WiFi ##

Hardware known functional (tested under Pragmatux Android).
Supporting software not yet packaged for base Pragmatux release.

## GPS ##

Hardware known functional (tested under Pragmatux Android).
Supporting software not yet packaged for base Pragmatux release.

## Bluetooth ##

Hardware known functional (tested under Pragmatux Android).
Supporting software not yet packaged for base Pragmatux release.

## FM RX and TX ##

Not tested.

## NFC ##

Not tested.

## HDMI ##

Hardware known functional (tested under Pragmatux Android).
Supporting software not yet packaged for base Pragmatux release.

## Audio Input and Output ##

Hardware known functional (tested under Pragmatux Android).
Supporting software not yet packaged for base Pragmatux release.

## Gyroscope ##

Hardware known functional via testing with kernel device driver.
Driver not yet ready for release, see Pragmatux mailing lists for more
information and estimated release date.
