docs/_quick-start-boneblack.asciidoc, before:

Quick-Start Guide for the Beaglebone Black SBC
==============================================
:Author: Bill Gatliff
:Email: bgat@billgatliff.com
:Revision: Pre-Release Draft

The following is a brief guide to creating a bootable Pragmatux Device
filesystem image for the http://beagleboard.org/black[Beaglebone Black
single-board computer].

Additional support resources for Beagleboard devices, including
technical documentation, downloads, and mailing lists, are available
at the http://beagleboard.org[Beagleboard website].
Pragmatux-specific questions should be directed to the
http://lists.pragmatux.org[Pragmatux mailing lists].  Pragmatux is not
affiliated with the Beagleboard project(s).

== Set Up a Pragmatux Workstation

The development environment for creating programs, packages, and
filesystem images is a desktop, laptop, or server running the Wheezy
release of the Debian Linux distribution. That environment is called
the 'workstation'. The Beagleboard Black is hereafter referred to as
the 'device'.

Pragmatux works seamlessly with 64-bit (amd64) Debian Jessie, and this
configuration is tested continuously. Your mileage will vary with
other configurations, but Pragmatux developers routinely report
success using Pragmatux in a Debian Jessie chroot under Ubuntu LTS,
VMware virtual machines, etc.  See the
http:://www.pragmatux.org[Pragmatux website] for more information.

This document assumes you are starting with a pristine Debian
Jessie installation on an amd64 workstation.

== Add the Pragmatux package repository

Download the following file to your /etc/apt/sources.list.d directory:

    http://www.pragmatux.org/apt-sources-ptux-sdk_all.deb

== Install the development tools for the device

A basic Pragmatux Workstation installation provides a pre-packaged,
uniform SDK and related tools for supported devices. To install it:

....
$ sudo dpkg --add-architecture armhf
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install ptux-sdk-boneblack
....

The above commands install packages containing the tools and code
libraries essential for cross-development targeting a Pragmatux device
runtime environment.  If prompted, answer ``yes'' to install some
packages without authentication.

== Create a device filesystem image

Compose a filesystem using the default set of packages:

....
$ mkdir boneblack
$ cd boneblack
$ sudo fakeroot mkos-boneblack
....

The above commands create `ptux.img`, a bootable SD card image.

When invoked without arguments, `mkos-<device>` composes a filesystem
with basic functionality: serial console, SSH server, WiFi support,
and so on. See the Pragmatux documetation for a list of
currently-supported target devices.

You can manually add or remove packages on a running device using
ordinary, Debian package management tools already included in the
default filesystem.  In addition, by passing additional arguments to
`mkos-<device>` you can change the features present in the filesystem
it creates.  Use the `--help` parameter, and/or see the Pragmatux
documentation for more information.

== Create a bootable SD card

Use an SD card that is at least as large as the `ptux.img` file itself
(usually about 1GB).  A larger SD card will give you more storage area
on the device, but not until you resize the filesystem after first
boot (TODO: instructions forthcoming, see also the `resize2fs (8)`
manpage).

Use the `dmesg` command, if necessary, to determine what name the
workstation assigns to your SD card when inserted, i.e. `/dev/sdf`.

Write the image to an SD card:

....
$ sudo dd bs=1M if=ptux.img of=/dev/sdf conv=fsync
....

== Boot the device for the first time

Disconnect power from the Beaglebone Black, insert the SD card into
its card slot, then power up the board while holding the `BOOT` switch
(the pushbutton closest to the uSD card slot).  Within a few seconds,
the kernel should boot and write considerable output to the serial
console (if attached). The very first time the operating system
starts, it will go through a minute-long installation procedure and
then automatically restart the board.


== Log in as root via serial console

The default password for the root user is "`password`" (omit quotes):

....
Pragmatux 4.0 device ttyO2

device login: root
Password: password
....


== Enabling root logins over SSH (optional)

By default, Pragmatux devices permit root logins over SSH only via an
authorized key. Password-authenticated logins are disabled, and are
not generally recommended.

=== Authorized-key authentication

To configure root login over SSH via authorized key, add the contents of
your personal `id_rsa.pub` file to `/root/.ssh/authorized_keys` on the
device using one of the following means:

* copy/pasting it through the serial console;
* using `scp` to copy it over the ethernet link, or;
* mounting the device's SD card on your workstation.

Create the `authorized_keys` file on the device, if it doesn't already exist.


=== Password-authenticated logins

To enable password-authenticated root login over SSH, edit `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` as follows.

Find the following line:

....
PermitRootLogin without-password
....

Change the above to read as follows:

....
# PermitRootLogin without-password
PermitRootLogin yes
....

Finally, restart the SSH server:

....
root@device:~# service sshd restart
....


== Finding your device's IP address

By default, Pragmatux devices act as DHCP clients so that a DHCP
server can assign their network address.  Use the `ip` command at the
device's serial console to determine what IP address was assigned by
your DHCP server:

....
Pragmatux 4.0 device ttyO2

device login: root
Password: password
root@device:~# ip addr show eth0
2: eth0: <...,UP,...>...
    ...
    inet 192.168.88.3/24 ...
    ...
....

Commit message:

Remove reference to wheezy in Boneblack QSG

docs/_quick-start-boneblack.asciidoc, after:

Quick-Start Guide for the Beaglebone Black SBC
==============================================
:Author: Bill Gatliff
:Email: bgat@billgatliff.com
:Revision: Pre-Release Draft

The following is a brief guide to creating a bootable Pragmatux Device
filesystem image for the http://beagleboard.org/black[Beaglebone Black
single-board computer].

Additional support resources for Beagleboard devices, including
technical documentation, downloads, and mailing lists, are available
at the http://beagleboard.org[Beagleboard website].
Pragmatux-specific questions should be directed to the
http://lists.pragmatux.org[Pragmatux mailing lists].  Pragmatux is not
affiliated with the Beagleboard project(s).

== Set Up a Pragmatux Workstation

The development environment for creating programs, packages, and
filesystem images is a desktop, laptop, or server running the Jessie
release of the Debian Linux distribution. That environment is called
the 'workstation'. The Beagleboard Black is hereafter referred to as
the 'device'.

Pragmatux works seamlessly with a native, 64-bit (amd64) Debian host,
and this configuration is tested continuously. Your mileage will vary
with other configurations, but Pragmatux developers routinely report
success using Pragmatux in a chroot under Debian, Ubuntu LTS, VMware
virtual machines, etc.  See the http:://www.pragmatux.org[Pragmatux
website] for more information.

This document assumes you are starting with a pristine Debian
installation on an amd64 workstation.

== Add the Pragmatux package repository

Download the following file to your /etc/apt/sources.list.d directory:

    http://www.pragmatux.org/apt-sources-ptux-sdk_all.deb

== Install the development tools for the device

A basic Pragmatux Workstation installation provides a pre-packaged,
uniform SDK and related tools for supported devices. To install it:

....
$ sudo dpkg --add-architecture armhf
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install ptux-sdk-boneblack
....

The above commands install packages containing the tools and code
libraries essential for cross-development targeting a Pragmatux device
runtime environment.  If prompted, answer ``yes'' to install some
packages without authentication.

== Create a device filesystem image

Compose a filesystem using the default set of packages:

....
$ mkdir boneblack
$ cd boneblack
$ fakeroot mkos-boneblack
....

The above commands create `ptux.img`, a bootable SD card image.

== Adjusting the device filesystem

When invoked without arguments, `mkos-<device>` composes a filesystem
with basic functionality: serial console, SSH server, WiFi support,
and so on. 

You can manually add or remove packages on a running device using
ordinary, Debian package management tools already included in the
default filesystem.  In addition, by passing additional arguments to
`mkos-<device>` you can change the features present in the filesystem
it creates.  Use the `--help` parameter, and/or see the Pragmatux
documentation for more information.

== Create a bootable SD card

Use an SD card that is at least as large as the `ptux.img` file itself
(usually about 1GB).  A larger SD card will give you more storage area
on the device, but not until you resize the filesystem after first
boot (TODO: instructions forthcoming, see also the `resize2fs (8)`
manpage).

Use the `dmesg` command, if necessary, to determine what name the
workstation assigns to your SD card when inserted, i.e. `/dev/sdf`.

Write the image to an SD card:

....
$ sudo dd bs=1M if=ptux.img of=/dev/sdf conv=fsync
....

== Boot the device for the first time

Disconnect power from the device, insert the SD card into
its card slot, then power up the board while holding the `BOOT` switch
(the pushbutton closest to the uSD card slot).  Within a few seconds,
the kernel should boot and write considerable output to the serial
console (if attached). The very first time the operating system
starts, it will go through a minute-long installation procedure and
then automatically restart the board.


== Log in as root via serial console

The default password for the root user is "`password`" (omit quotes):

....
Pragmatux 4.0 device ttyO2

device login: root
Password: password
....


== Enabling root logins over SSH (optional)

By default, Pragmatux devices permit root logins over SSH only via an
authorized key. Password-authenticated logins are disabled, and are
not generally recommended.

=== Authorized-key authentication

To configure root login over SSH via authorized key, add the contents of
your personal `id_rsa.pub` file to `/root/.ssh/authorized_keys` on the
device using one of the following means:

* copy/pasting it through the serial console;
* using `scp` to copy it over the ethernet link, or;
* mounting the device's SD card on your workstation.

Create the `authorized_keys` file on the device, if it doesn't already exist.


=== Password-authenticated logins

To enable password-authenticated root login over SSH, edit `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` as follows.

Find the following line:

....
PermitRootLogin without-password
....

Change the above to read as follows:

....
# PermitRootLogin without-password
PermitRootLogin yes
....

Finally, restart the SSH server:

....
root@device:~# service sshd restart
....


== Finding your device's IP address

By default, Pragmatux devices act as DHCP clients so that a DHCP
server can assign their network address.  Use the `ip` command at the
device's serial console to determine what IP address was assigned by
your DHCP server:

....
Pragmatux 4.0 device ttyO2

device login: root
Password: password
root@device:~# ip addr show eth0
2: eth0: <...,UP,...>...
    ...
    inet 192.168.88.3/24 ...
    ...
....
