docs/_quick-start-db8060a.asciidoc, before:

Quick-Start Guide for the DragonBoard(TM) 8060A
===============================================
:Author: Ryan Kuester
:Email: rkuester@insymbols.com
:Revision: Pre-Release Draft

This is a brief guide to creating a Pragmatux Workstation development
environment and Pragmatux Device filesystem images for the DragonBoard(TM) 8060A
target. See the more general and thorough link:users-manual.html[Pragmatux
Users Manual] to learn the magic behind these steps, and consult the
link:users-manual-db8060a.html[Pragmatux Users Manual for DragonBoard 8060A]
for topics specific to the DragonBoard 8060A.

There is a community of DragonBoard users at http://mydragonboard.org,
with forums suitable for hardware questions. Pragmatux software questions are
best directed to the mailto:pragmatux-users@lists.pragmatux.org[Pragmatux mailing list].

== Setup a Pragmatux Workstation

The development environment for creating programs, packages, and filesystem
images is a desktop, laptop, or server running the Wheezy version of the
Debian Linux distribution. That environment is called the 'workstation'. The
DragonBoard is called the 'device'.

The workstation need not be a physical machine; it is common to use a
virtual machine or a chroot within another operating system; however,
the workstation must be of the 'amd64' architecture.

. Install Debian Wheezy
+
Begin by http://www.debian.org/releases/wheezy/amd64[installing the
Debian Wheezy operating system] on any amd64 architecture machine.
The following commands are to be run on that machine, unless otherwise 
stated.

. Add package sources for Pragmatux Workstation
+
Configure the workstation to use the Pragmatux package sources by downloading
and installing the package
http://pragmatux.org/misc/bravo/apt-source-ptux-workstation.deb[apt-source-ptux-workstation.deb].
+
To install:
+
....
# dpkg -i apt-source-ptux-workstation.deb
....

. Have the package management system read the contents of the package
sources
+
....
# apt-get update
....
+
For now, ignore the warning about the inability to verify the authenticity of
the Emdebian package repository. This will be rectified in a future step.

. Install the development tools for DragonBoard 8060A
+
....
# apt-get install ptux-workstation-db8060a
....
+
This will install tens of packages containing the tools and code
libraries essential for cross-development targeting the DragonBoard. Answer 
``yes'' when prompted whether to continue, despite the warning about the 
inability to authenticate several of the packages.

== Create device filesystem images

. Compose a filesystem using the default set of packages
+
....
$ mkdir wrk
$ cd wrk
$ fakeroot mkos-db8060a
....
+
This will create two files, 'boot.img' containing the kernel and initramfs, and 
'ptux.img' containing the root filesystem. They will be written to the 
DragonBoard's eMMC storage in subsequent steps.

When invoked without arguments, `mkos-db8060a` composes a filesystem for the
DragonBoard using a predefined list of packages. Via arguments, this list
can be modified and extended to define a customized filesystem for each
project using DragonBoard.

Packages can be added to and removed from a running device using the
package management tools which are included in the base image.

== Connect a serial terminal

The DragonBoard's DE9 connector is connected to the primary serial line,
which is used as the system console, to which kernel messages are directed
and on which a command shell may be started. The serial line parameters are
115200-8-N-1 (115200 bits per second, 8 data bits, no parity bit, and 1
stop bit) at RS-232 signaling levels. The connector uses a DTE pin-out.

Use whatever serial terminal software and hardware you prefer; the instructions
below are for a Pragmatux workstation using a USB-to-serial adapter.

. Connect a null modem RS-232 serial cable between the DragonBoard's
DE9 connector and the USB-to-serial adapter.

. Start http://www.gnu.org/software/screen/manual/screen.html[GNU screen]
as a terminal emulator.
+
....
# screen /dev/ttyUSB0 115200
....
+
For help, type 'ctrl-a' followed by '?'; and to quit, type  'ctrl-a' 'k'.

== Write device filesystem images to eMMC storage

. Put DragonBoard 8060A into 'fastboot' mode
+
While holding down the 'volume ``+''' key on the keypad, boot the DragonBoard
by cycling power. Release the key shortly thereafter. The DragonBoard
bootloader will pause in fastboot mode, listening to commands from a fastboot
client. Serial output from the bootloader will indicate it's listening for
fastboot comamnds; however, the LCD will remain blank.
+
....
Android Bootloader - UART_DM Initialized!!!
[0] welcome to lk

[10] platform_init()
[10] target_init()
[130] USB init ept @ 0x88f4e000
[170] fastboot_init()
[170] udc_start()
[300] -- reset --
[300] -- portchange --
[470] fastboot: processing commands
....

. Connect the DragonBoard USB device port to the workstation and verify 
connectivity
+
After making the USB connection and giving workstation a few seconds to 
enumerate the new device, run the fastboot client to verify connectivity to the 
bootloader. If the client is able to talk to the bootloader, it will print the serial 
number of the DragonBoard.
+
....
# fastboot devices
b1732aaf        fastboot
....

. Write kernel and initramfs to the 'boot' partition
+
Using the fastboot client on the workstation, write the 'boot.img' image 
containing the kernel and initramfs to the partition named 'boot'.
+
....
# fastboot flash boot boot.img
sending 'boot' (5474 KB)...
OKAY [  1.032s]
writing 'boot'...
OKAY [  1.093s]
finished. total time: 2.125s
....

. Write root filesystem image to the 'system' partition
+
Using the fastboot client on the workstation, write the 'ptux.img' image 
containing the root filesystem to the partition named 'system'.
+
....
# fastboot flash system ptux.img
sending 'system' (85797 KB)...
OKAY [  8.391s]
writing 'system'...
OKAY [ 27.812s]
finished. total time: 36.203s
....

Now the operating system has been installed on DragonBoard and it is ready 
to be booted for the first time.

== Boot DragonBoard for the first time

Reset the DragonBoard by cycling power. Within seconds, the newly installed 
kernel should boot and write considerable output to the serial console. The 
very first time the operating system starts, it will go through a minute-long 
installation procedure and automatically restart the board.

....
Setting up ncurses-base (5.7+20100313-5em1) ...
Setting up sensible-utils (0.0.4em1) ...
Setting up dpkg-autoconfigure (1.5~dev2) ...
Setting up devnodes-ptux (1.3) ...
Setting up sshd-run (1.0) ...
Setting up linux-db8060a (3.0.21-12374-gcae2925-1) ...
[....]
....

The installation generates much debugging, informational, and warning output 
due to the unusual state of the system at installation time and the 
inconsistent use of logging levels by several of packages being installed.  
While ignoring warnings is normally a bad practice, novice users can safely 
ignore warnings in this output when installing a default configuration unless 
the system fails to behave as expected after the after the first boot.

On the second and all subsequent boots, a login prompt leading to a command 
shell is offered on the serial port. The only account which exists
following a basic installation is 'root' with the password 'password'.

....
Pragmatux alpha ptux ttyHSL0

ptux login:
....

Commit message:

db8060a: write the ptux image to 'userdata' instead of 'system'

docs/_quick-start-db8060a.asciidoc, after:

Quick-Start Guide for the DragonBoard(TM) 8060A
===============================================
:Author: Ryan Kuester
:Email: rkuester@insymbols.com
:Revision: Pre-Release Draft

This is a brief guide to creating a Pragmatux Workstation development
environment and Pragmatux Device filesystem images for the DragonBoard(TM) 8060A
target. See the more general and thorough link:users-manual.html[Pragmatux
Users Manual] to learn the magic behind these steps, and consult the
link:users-manual-db8060a.html[Pragmatux Users Manual for DragonBoard 8060A]
for topics specific to the DragonBoard 8060A.

There is a community of DragonBoard users at http://mydragonboard.org,
with forums suitable for hardware questions. Pragmatux software questions are
best directed to the mailto:pragmatux-users@lists.pragmatux.org[Pragmatux mailing list].

== Setup a Pragmatux Workstation

The development environment for creating programs, packages, and filesystem
images is a desktop, laptop, or server running the Wheezy version of the
Debian Linux distribution. That environment is called the 'workstation'. The
DragonBoard is called the 'device'.

The workstation need not be a physical machine; it is common to use a
virtual machine or a chroot within another operating system; however,
the workstation must be of the 'amd64' architecture.

. Install Debian Wheezy
+
Begin by http://www.debian.org/releases/wheezy/amd64[installing the
Debian Wheezy operating system] on any amd64 architecture machine.
The following commands are to be run on that machine, unless otherwise 
stated.

. Add package sources for Pragmatux Workstation
+
Configure the workstation to use the Pragmatux package sources by downloading
and installing the package
http://pragmatux.org/misc/bravo/apt-source-ptux-workstation.deb[apt-source-ptux-workstation.deb].
+
To install:
+
....
# dpkg -i apt-source-ptux-workstation.deb
....

. Have the package management system read the contents of the package
sources
+
....
# apt-get update
....
+
For now, ignore the warning about the inability to verify the authenticity of
the Emdebian package repository. This will be rectified in a future step.

. Install the development tools for DragonBoard 8060A
+
....
# apt-get install ptux-workstation-db8060a
....
+
This will install tens of packages containing the tools and code
libraries essential for cross-development targeting the DragonBoard. Answer 
``yes'' when prompted whether to continue, despite the warning about the 
inability to authenticate several of the packages.

== Create device filesystem images

. Compose a filesystem using the default set of packages
+
....
$ mkdir wrk
$ cd wrk
$ fakeroot mkos-db8060a
....
+
This will create two files, 'boot.img' containing the kernel and initramfs, and 
'ptux.img' containing the root filesystem. They will be written to the 
DragonBoard's eMMC storage in subsequent steps.

When invoked without arguments, `mkos-db8060a` composes a filesystem for the
DragonBoard using a predefined list of packages. Via arguments, this list
can be modified and extended to define a customized filesystem for each
project using DragonBoard.

Packages can be added to and removed from a running device using the
package management tools which are included in the base image.

== Connect a serial terminal

The DragonBoard's DE9 connector is connected to the primary serial line,
which is used as the system console, to which kernel messages are directed
and on which a command shell may be started. The serial line parameters are
115200-8-N-1 (115200 bits per second, 8 data bits, no parity bit, and 1
stop bit) at RS-232 signaling levels. The connector uses a DTE pin-out.

Use whatever serial terminal software and hardware you prefer; the instructions
below are for a Pragmatux workstation using a USB-to-serial adapter.

. Connect a null modem RS-232 serial cable between the DragonBoard's
DE9 connector and the USB-to-serial adapter.

. Start http://www.gnu.org/software/screen/manual/screen.html[GNU screen]
as a terminal emulator.
+
....
# screen /dev/ttyUSB0 115200
....
+
For help, type 'ctrl-a' followed by '?'; and to quit, type  'ctrl-a' 'k'.

== Write device filesystem images to eMMC storage

. Put DragonBoard 8060A into 'fastboot' mode
+
While holding down the 'volume ``+''' key on the keypad, boot the DragonBoard
by cycling power. Release the key shortly thereafter. The DragonBoard
bootloader will pause in fastboot mode, listening to commands from a fastboot
client. Serial output from the bootloader will indicate it's listening for
fastboot comamnds; however, the LCD will remain blank.
+
....
Android Bootloader - UART_DM Initialized!!!
[0] welcome to lk

[10] platform_init()
[10] target_init()
[130] USB init ept @ 0x88f4e000
[170] fastboot_init()
[170] udc_start()
[300] -- reset --
[300] -- portchange --
[470] fastboot: processing commands
....

. Connect the DragonBoard USB device port to the workstation and verify 
connectivity
+
After making the USB connection and giving workstation a few seconds to 
enumerate the new device, run the fastboot client to verify connectivity to the 
bootloader. If the client is able to talk to the bootloader, it will print the serial 
number of the DragonBoard.
+
....
# fastboot devices
b1732aaf        fastboot
....

. Write kernel and initramfs to the 'boot' partition
+
Using the fastboot client on the workstation, write the 'boot.img' image 
containing the kernel and initramfs to the partition named 'boot'.
+
....
# fastboot flash boot boot.img
sending 'boot' (5474 KB)...
OKAY [  1.032s]
writing 'boot'...
OKAY [  1.093s]
finished. total time: 2.125s
....

. Write root filesystem image to the 'userdata' partition
+
Using the fastboot client on the workstation, write the 'ptux.img' image 
containing the root filesystem to the partition named 'userdata'.
+
....
# fastboot flash userdata ptux.img
sending 'userdata' (85797 KB)...
OKAY [  8.391s]
writing 'userdata'...
OKAY [ 27.812s]
finished. total time: 36.203s
....

Now the operating system has been installed on DragonBoard and it is ready 
to be booted for the first time.

== Boot DragonBoard for the first time

Reset the DragonBoard by cycling power. Within seconds, the newly installed 
kernel should boot and write considerable output to the serial console. The 
very first time the operating system starts, it will go through a minute-long 
installation procedure and automatically restart the board.

....
Setting up ncurses-base (5.7+20100313-5em1) ...
Setting up sensible-utils (0.0.4em1) ...
Setting up dpkg-autoconfigure (1.5~dev2) ...
Setting up devnodes-ptux (1.3) ...
Setting up sshd-run (1.0) ...
Setting up linux-db8060a (3.0.21-12374-gcae2925-1) ...
[....]
....

The installation generates much debugging, informational, and warning output 
due to the unusual state of the system at installation time and the 
inconsistent use of logging levels by several of packages being installed.  
While ignoring warnings is normally a bad practice, novice users can safely 
ignore warnings in this output when installing a default configuration unless 
the system fails to behave as expected after the after the first boot.

On the second and all subsequent boots, a login prompt leading to a command 
shell is offered on the serial port. The only account which exists
following a basic installation is 'root' with the password 'password'.

....
Pragmatux alpha ptux ttyHSL0

ptux login:
....
